[Music]
welcome back to Hannity former Marine
Staff Sergeant Steve Guren was working
as a private security contractor in Iraq
well at least until a few days ago when
he was forced to flee the country he
posted a video on Facebook talking about
president Trump's temporary travel ban
it got more than 44 million views watch
this I'm currently in in Iraq which is
one of the countries that run the list
and there's been a lot of discussion
about the executive order obviously in
the United States is lots going on and
over here there's a lot of going on as
well just a lot of things you all don't
see so the other morning we're having a
discussion on the executive order and a
lot of the Iraqis obviously showed their
their displeasure and this executive
order and why they feel like they've
been betrayed by the United States and
so on
I listened what they had to say and
after after they were done you know
yelling and screaming about their
opinion on things I asked a simple
question and I got an answer that simple
question I got it without hesitation
multiple question was as an American if
I went out in town right now would I be
welcome and they instantly said
absolutely not you would not be welcome
and I said okay so what would happen if
I went out of town and they said the
locals would snatch me up and kill me
within an hour
I'd be tortured first and after they
were done torturing me I'd probably be
beheaded it would you know go on video
for everybody to see as you know an
example point I'm trying to make is you
know this is the local populace that
would do this this doesn't Isis this
isn't al Qaeda this isn't the PMU this
isn't a militia from the Iranians or
anything like that this is the local the
local populace that would do this
so my question to them was pretty simple
then after that if you would do this to
me in your country why would I let you
in my country because all this means to
me is that if you have the opportunity
to take the life of an American you
would do it so maybe that's something
you all need to think about back there
this is the way some of these cultures
feel this is the way that these
countries feel about Americans why would
you be so naive to believe that if they
came to the United States they would do
anything any different now what they
would do right here in their own country
and joining us now to share his story is
Steve Garden Steve good to see you
thanks for being here thank you sir
thanks for having me I know you say
these are simple questions that you're
asking but they're really profound
questions that clearly hit a nerve we
were surprised by the 44 million views
absolutely it was I posted that at 11
o'clock at night and I went to bed I got
up at 0 5 the next morning for to get
ready permission I was told that it had
hit 1.1 million at that time I didn't
think anything of it I kind of laughed
it off and I went out on mission got my
weapons and came back from mission put
my weapons up and I was figuring about
that time it was around five million
views and I was expecting obviously a
call on the radio to make it to the
office and I shortly shortly after got
that call all right so you really were
advised this had gotten so viral and
people don't know what you look like you
were sent home is there any chance you
get to ever go back I don't know what
the intentions are of the company I'm
currently working for or employed by I
do know that I was removed obviously for
safety issues so I do not know exactly
where where
go from here all right look I guess the
what's so frustrating about this is to
me it's a very simple equation we're not
saying that you can't come to America
we're saying that we need to check you
out what really bothers me deep down
inside is when all our top intelligence
officials are telling us that we that
that Isis will infiltrate the refugee
population well Isis may be evil but
that doesn't mean they're stupid and I
got to imagine that they would train
people to withstand whatever questioning
would come their way how do you ever
positively ascertain what is in
somebody's heart if they want to come to
America if they want to come here for
freedom or they want to come here to
proselytize or they want to come here to
hurt Americans and blow up a school or a
mall or whatever you're really not going
to be able to in the what I have learned
over the years of working you know in
Iraq and Afghanistan is they're very
good at manipulation they can manipulate
just about anyone and they're really
good at it so they can tell you what
they you know what they want you to hear
and they can keep that up for many many
years and then eventually when it's time
they'll they'll do what they believe is
right and if that is to you know hurt
hurt an American or hurt many of us at
one time they're going to do it I think
your admonition I know you said these
are simple questions but they're very
deep very profound and very timely and
relevant to the debate that's going on
in the country sir glad you got home
safe thank you for being with us
congratulations on the 44 million hits
and when we come back a new report in